<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en-US">
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="./style.css"/>
    <style>
      .example {
        background-color: #eee;
        border-radius: 5px;
        border: 1px solid black;
        margin: 1rem;
        padding: 1rem;
        padding-top: 0;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>

    <h1>Dynamic Content Examples</h1>

    <p>These 2 examples show how the content can be edited by the user <strong>and</strong> can be initialized with different values for different users (refresh the page).</p>
    <p>You can click an input and then press up/down to adjust the number</p>

    <h2>Why do this?</h2>
    <ul>
      <li>Content &amp; Exercises can be more dynamic rather than just static numbers on a page.</li>
      <li>Students can view different variants of Content &amp; Exercises.</li>
    </ul>

    <div class="example">
      <h2>Cookies</h2>
      <p>When you eat 
        <input 
          data-var="cookies" 
          data-init="(randomSeed) => Math.round(randomSeed * 10) + 2"
          type="number" 
          min="2" 
          max="99" 
          />
          
        cookies, you consume 
        
        <var data-inputs="cookies" data-fn="(c) => c * 50"/> calories.          
      </p>
    </div>

    <div class="example">
      <h2>Proposition 21:  Vehicle License Fee for State Parks</h2>
      
      <h3>The way it is now:</h3>
  
      <input type="hidden" data-var="oldBudget" value="400000000"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="registeredVehicleCount" value="28000000"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="taxpayerCount" value="13657632"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="oldVisitorCount" value="75000000"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue" value="0.1"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="percentInStateVistors" value="85"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="percentVehicleOwners" value="95"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="taxCount" data-inputs="isTaxPerVehicle,registeredVehicleCount,taxpayerCount" data-fn="(isTaxPerVehicle, registeredVehicleCount, taxpayerCount) => isTaxPerVehicle ? registeredVehicleCount : taxpayerCount"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="taxCollected" data-inputs="tax,percentCompliance,taxCount" data-fn="(tax, percentCompliance, taxCount) => tax * percentCompliance/100 * taxCount"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="deltaBudget" data-inputs="taxCollected,deltaRevenue" data-fn="(taxCollected, deltaRevenue) => taxCollected + deltaRevenue"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="deltaRevenue" data-inputs="newRevenue,oldRevenue" data-fn="(newRevenue,oldRevenue) => newRevenue - oldRevenue"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="oldRevenue" data-inputs="oldVisitorCount,oldAdmission,percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue" data-fn="(oldVisitorCount,oldAdmission,percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue) => oldVisitorCount * oldAdmission * percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="newRevenue" data-inputs="newVisitorCount,averageAdmission,percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue" data-fn="(newVisitorCount,averageAdmission,percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue) => newVisitorCount * averageAdmission * percentOfAdmissionConvertedToRevenue"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="deltaVisitorCount" data-inputs="newVisitorCount,oldVisitorCount" data-fn="(newVisitorCount,oldVisitorCount) => newVisitorCount - oldVisitorCount"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="averageAdmission" data-inputs="oldAdmission,fractionOfVisitorsEligibleForNewAdmission,newAdmission" data-fn="(oldAdmission,fractionOfVisitorsEligibleForNewAdmission,newAdmission) => oldAdmission + fractionOfVisitorsEligibleForNewAdmission * (newAdmission - oldAdmission)"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="fractionOfVisitorsEligibleForNewAdmission" data-inputs="newAdmissionAppliesToEveryone,percentInStateVistors,isTaxPerVehicle,percentVehicleOwners" data-fn="(newAdmissionAppliesToEveryone,percentInStateVistors,isTaxPerVehicle,percentVehicleOwners) => newAdmissionAppliesToEveryone ? 1 :
      (percentInStateVistors/100 * (isTaxPerVehicle ? (percentVehicleOwners/100) : 1))"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="newVisitorCount" data-inputs="oldVisitorCount,averageAdmission,oldAdmission" data-fn="(oldVisitorCount,averageAdmission,oldAdmission) => oldVisitorCount * Math.max(0.2, 1 + 0.5*Math.atan(1 - averageAdmission/oldAdmission))"/>
      <input type="hidden" data-var="budget" data-inputs="oldBudget,deltaBudget" data-fn="(oldBudget,deltaBudget) => oldBudget + deltaBudget"/>

      <p>California has <var data-var="parkCount">278</var> state parks, including state beaches and historic parks. 
          The current $<var data-inputs="oldBudget" data-fn="(x) => Math.floor(x / 1000000)"></var> million budget is insufficient to maintain these parks, 
          and <var data-var="oldClosedParkCount">150</var> parks will be shut down at least part-time.
          Most parks charge $<var data-var="oldAdmission">12</var> per vehicle for admission.</p>

      <h3>What Prop 21 would do:</h3>
  
      <p>Proposes to charge car owners an extra $18 on their annual registration bill, to go into the state park fund.  Cars that pay the charge would have free park admission.</p>

      <h3>Analysis:</h3>

      <p>Suppose that an extra
          $<input type="number" data-var="tax" min="0" max="50" value="18"/> was charged to
          <input type="number" data-var="percentCompliance" min="0" max="100" step="5" value="100"/>% of
          <select data-var="isTaxPerVehicle">
            <option value="true">vehicle registrations</option>
            <option value="false">California taxpayers</option>
          </select>.
          Park admission would be $<input type="number" data-var="newAdmission" min="0" max="25" value="0"/> for
          <select data-var="newAdmissionAppliesToEveryone">
            <option value="false">those who paid the charge</option>
            <option value="true">everyone</option>
          </select>.
      </p>
      
      <p>This would <var data-inputs="deltaBudget" data-fn="(deltaBudget) => deltaBudget > 0 ? 'collect an extra' : 'lose'"></var>
          $<var data-inputs="deltaBudget" data-fn="(x) => Math.abs(Math.floor(x / 1000000))"></var> million
          ($<var data-inputs="taxCollected" data-fn="(x) => Math.floor(x / 1000000)"></var> million from the tax,
          <var data-inputs="deltaRevenue" data-fn="(x) => x > 0 ? 'plus' : 'minus'"></var>
          $<var data-inputs="deltaRevenue" data-fn="(x) => Math.abs(Math.floor(x / 1000000))"></var> million
          <var data-inputs="deltaRevenue" data-fn="(x) => x > 0 ? 'additional' : 'lost'"></var> revenue from admission)
          for a total state park budget of $<var data-inputs="budget" data-fn="(x) => Math.floor(x / 1000000)"></var> million.
      
        <span data-inputs="budget,oldClosedParkCount,oldBudget" data-fn="(budget,oldClosedParkCount,oldBudget) => {
          
            const maintainanceBudget = 600e6;
            const repairBudget = 750e6;
            const maxBudget = 1000e6;
            
            if (budget &lt; maintainanceBudget) {
                let closedParkCount = oldClosedParkCount * (maintainanceBudget - budget) / (maintainanceBudget - oldBudget);
                closedParkCount = Math.round(closedParkCount);
                return `This is not sufficient to maintain the parks, and ${closedParkCount} parks would be shut down at least part-time.`

            } else if (budget &lt; repairBudget) {
                return `This is sufficient to maintain the parks in their current state, but not fund a program to bring safety and cleanliness up to acceptable standards.`

            } else if (budget &lt; maxBudget) {
                const restorationTime = Math.round(10 - 9 * (budget - repairBudget) / (maxBudget - repairBudget));
                return `This is sufficient to maintain the parks in their current state, plus fund a program to bring safety and cleanliness up to acceptable standards over the next ${restorationTime} years.`

            } else {
                const surplus = Math.floor((budget - maxBudget) / 1000000);
                return `This is sufficient to maintain the parks and bring safety and cleanliness up to acceptable standards, leaving a $${surplus} million per year surplus.`
            }
        
        
        }"></span>
        
      </p>
      
      <p>Park attendance would
          <var data-inputs="deltaVisitorCount" data-fn="(deltaVisitorCount) => deltaVisitorCount > 0 ? 'rise' : 'fall'"></var> by
          <var data-inputs="deltaVisitorCount,oldVisitorCount" data-fn="(deltaVisitorCount,oldVisitorCount) => Math.round(100 * Math.abs(deltaVisitorCount / oldVisitorCount))"></var>%, to
          <var data-inputs="newVisitorCount" data-fn="(x) => Math.round(x / 1000000)"></var> million visits each year.</p>
    </div>

    <script src="./src/tangle.js"></script>
    <script>
      const t = new Tangle()
      t.init()
      t.eval()
      /*
      for (const v of t.variables.values()) {
        console.log(`${v.name} = ${v.value}`)
      }
      */
    </script>
  </body>
</html>